README.md, before:

﻿# CS-4710-Semester-Project

Authors: Ethan Kacena-Merrell, Jalen Wang, Jerry Gu, Pranav Arora, Rithwik Raman, Timofey Maslyukov, and Jaeson Martin

Instructions to Run the Code Install Required Libraries: pip install pygame numpy pandas tensorflow matplotlib

Download the Code, including the models in the Models file.

Run the Basic Snake Game: python snake_game.py Use the arrow keys to control the snake.

Collect Data for AI Training: python snake_game_data_collection.py The game will run autonomously, and data will be saved to snake_game_data.csv.

Run the Snake Game with Pathfinding AI: python snake_pathfinding_ai.py The snake will navigate towards the pellet using the A* algorithm. You can switch to BFS by uncommenting the relevant line in the code.

Train and test the Reinforcement Learning Agents (training is usually around 1000 episodes):
- python snake_game_naive_winning_strategy.py will play the naive strategy
- python snake_tabular.py will train and test the Tabular Q-Learning model
- python snake_rl_dqn.py will train the DQN model (2 hidden layers), snake_dqn_model.h5 is the trained model, and snake_test_for_rl_dqn.py will test the model
- python snake_rl_more_hidden_layers.py will train the DQN model with 3 hidden layers and more_layers_snake_model.h5 is the trained model
- python snake_rl_ddqn.py will train the double DQN model, ddqn_snake_model.h5 is the trained model, and snake_test_for_rl_ddqn.py will test the model

Visualize Training Results: After training, plots of scores, survival times, losses, and epsilon values will be displayed.

Test the Trained Agent: To test the agent without further training, modify the associated test file to load the saved model and run test episodes.

Run the script again to observe the agent's performance.

Commit message:

updated the readme for dueling dqn

README.md, after:

﻿# CS-4710-Semester-Project

Authors: Ethan Kacena-Merrell, Jalen Wang, Jerry Gu, Pranav Arora, Rithwik Raman, Timofey Maslyukov, and Jaeson Martin

Instructions to Run the Code Install Required Libraries: pip install pygame numpy pandas tensorflow matplotlib

Download the Code, including the models in the Models file.

Run the Basic Snake Game: python snake_game.py Use the arrow keys to control the snake.

Collect Data for AI Training: python snake_game_data_collection.py The game will run autonomously, and data will be saved to snake_game_data.csv.

Run the Snake Game with Pathfinding AI: python snake_pathfinding_ai.py The snake will navigate towards the pellet using the A* algorithm. You can switch to BFS by uncommenting the relevant line in the code.

Train and test the Reinforcement Learning Agents (training is usually around 1000 episodes):
- python snake_game_naive_winning_strategy.py will play the naive strategy
- python snake_tabular.py will train and test the Tabular Q-Learning model
- python snake_rl_dqn.py will train the DQN model (2 hidden layers), snake_dqn_model.h5 is the trained model, and snake_test_for_rl_dqn.py will test the model
- python snake_rl_more_hidden_layers.py will train the DQN model with 3 hidden layers and more_layers_snake_model.h5 is the trained model
- python snake_rl_ddqn.py will train the double DQN model, ddqn_snake_model.h5 is the trained model, and snake_test_for_rl_ddqn.py will test the model
- python snake_rl_dueling.py will train the dueling DQN model. It will generate a model of the format [# of epochs]_epoch_snake_model, whihc can be run using snake_test_rl_dueling.py

Visualize Training Results: After training, plots of scores, survival times, losses, and epsilon values will be displayed.

Test the Trained Agent: To test the agent without further training, modify the associated test file to load the saved model and run test episodes.

Run the script again to observe the agent's performance.
